---
title: Software
subtitle: What should you learn?
layout: default
---
## A Note About Hardware

If you currently use MacOSX, many software packages will be available to you with varying levels of stability. Blender runs extremely well on MacOSX. Windows based computers and NVidia Graphics cards have considerably more wide-spread software and peripheral support. Additionally, Windows computers tend to cost less for higher spec'd machines. Apple eliminated advanced driver support for NVidia graphics cards in there newer oeprating systems and is moving away from Intel processors, therefore the future of Apple support for CGI software is not known.

## What software should I use?

If you don't know what software to use, and are not comfortable deviating from the course learning modules, you should use the latest version of Blender. If you would like an explaination of why, or would prefer to use another software, keep reading.

## Software and the CGI Industry

This is a digital art class within an accredited art school. We will use industry tools and craft within an academic context. This can be confusing, but it explained in more detail in the course learning materials.

If you are just getting into the the vast CGI field, you may not know which software to start with. For this class, beginning to learn 3D with Blender will be the easiest option for a variety of reasons. Blender provides enough functionality for an entire 3D animated film production pipeline within one package. It also has support for 2D animation workflows, 3D printing, and other workflows, but film production is the most complex pipeline. Most 3D software packages operate on the same theory and principles, they implement the same production workflows, and use the same algorithms invented by early industry pioneers to make 3D media possible. They do these things slightly differently, sometimes in different orders, and with different degrees of ease for the artist or developer. Many support the scripting langauges, typically Python, and may simultaneously include their own proprietary scripting language.

If you learn the fundamental principles of how 3D software works, chances are you can learn how to use and understand any other 3D software package. Not all software teaches you the fundamentals as you use the software. For instance, Maxon Cinema4D is a popular choice for motion graphics artists because of it's intutive interface, but it obscures most of how 3D works under the hood. If you only plan to use C4D forever, this doesn't really matter. However, you would have a tougher time switching to another package like Maya or Blender from C4D, than switching to C4D from those packages.

To gain a deep knowledge of one particular software package, it may take your entire career, and even then you won't know how to do everything. For this reason, the industry breaks job roles into specializations for aspects of a production pipeline. For instance you may become an expert on lighting and color theory, and know the ins and outs of 3D lighting tools. If you want to be a digital sculptor and texture painter, you will need to have a mastery of human anatomy, animal anatonmy, and color theory to invent believable fictious creatures. The time spent mastering that specialization won't afford you time to learn other aspects of the field. You can learn how to do everything to some extent, but it's not realistic that you would be able to be master every aspect of production. When you look at film credits for a CG-heavy movie, you will see all VFX studios and people involved, along with their specialties.

Some companies want to hire people with a high level of knowlege in a particular software and skill within that software. Some are looking for someone who has general knowledge and can use different software. Some want to hire to propritary software that they developed in-house, and will train you once you are hired. There is no one "inudstry standard" software tool despite many people claiming there are. It can be helpful to have deep knowledge of one software package, and to have some familiarity with others. The amount of free training that now exists on the Internet makes it possible for you to learn on demand, which may be what you have to do to get your foot in the door.

If you don't know what direction to go in, try to get a general feel for everything, and be conscious of the art and design theory that supports each specialization. If you are attempting to match the requirements of an industry job description, some research will be in order. Each VFX studio, animation studio, game studio, or other creative production studio will use a different set of software tools. And since no one academic or training course, or even an entire curriculum, can possiblly train students on every production workflow and their respective software packages, you will have to continually learn new software packages.

## Design and Manufacutring

This course caters more to image making, whether moving or not, to convey story or meaning. Product design and architecture can also be used to convey meaning, though this specifically tends to be in the realm of speculative design. In the field of architecture and product or industrial design, Coputer Aided Design (CAD) software is used to create a digital design that can generate blueprints for buildings, supply manufacturing specialists with tool paths, or create visualizations for packaging and marketing. CAD software used to have poor support for creating compelling images, and it would have to be exported to other software for rendering. Now they come with advanced rendering engines and material presets to skip this step. CAD is the most precise way to design an object for manufacturing, but you could never use CAD software to model and texture a believable human or animal with current software. If you want to learn 3D for object making, Rhino3D, AutoDesk Fusion360, SolidWorks are the best options. For vehicle design, Autodesk Alias is the.